Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2:

The full form of HTTP is Hyper Text Transfer Protocol. It is used in client-server communication.
In order to understand HTTP/HTTPS(secured) we need to first understand the definition of a protocol(Network Protocol).
Network Proctocols is a set of rules how a data should be transmitted from one server to another(one machine to another machine).

There are different types of Network Proctocols; used according to the type of data transfer:
1) HTTP/HTTPS - Hyper Text Transfer Proctocol
2) TCP - Transmission Control Protocol
3) UDP - User Datagram Protocol 
and many more.

HTTP/HTTPS - It is undirectional. By using HTTP user sends the request to the server & the server sends the response to the user.
             If we want to get another data we will have to request it again.

HTTP/1.1 : (Created in 1997)                                                            

1) Relies on a single TCP connection per request. This means if one file is slow to load (like an image),
   it can hold up the loading of other files on the same page.

2) Uses text-based messages, which are larger and require more processing power to interpret.
3) Limited header compression capabilities. Repeated headers in every request can waste bandwidth.
4) The server waits for the browser to request resources.

HTTP/2 : (Created in 2015)

1) Enables multiplexing, allowing multiple requests to be sent over a single TCP connection.
This means faster loading times, especially for webpages with many resources like images, videos, and stylesheets.

2) Uses a binary protocol, which is more compact and efficient to transmit, reducing overhead and improving performance.
3) Employs HPACK (Header Packing) for efficient header compression. This significantly reduces the size of header data and improves loading speed.
4) Allows the server to anticipate client requests and proactively push resources (like scripts or stylesheets) that the browser might need,
   further optimizing loading times.

HTTP/2 is a faster, more efficient, and more secure evolution of HTTP/1.1. Upgrading to HTTP/2 can significantly improve website loading times and user experience.